the UN Agency for Palestinian refugees
unwa says that it's overwhelmed by the
number of people displaced by Israel's
war on Gaza it says 600,000 displaced
Palestinians have fled their homes and
are taking Refuge at its shelters at
least 40 of its facilities that include
schools and Clinics have been impacted
by Israeli strikes the agency says it
shelters are hosting currently four
times their capacity many families are
sleeping in the streets meanwhile Oxfam
is warning that Israel is using
starvation as a weapon of war the agency
says just 2% of the normal food supply
has been delivered after Israel imposed
a total blockade Oxfam described the
situation as horrific and says 2.3
million people are being collectively
punished in contravention of
international humanitarian law bush raal
is policy lead in the occupied
Palestinian territory in Israel at Oxfam
you're joining us from rala Bushra so
your uh group your organization studied
this what have been your
findings so before the hostilities
escalated Israel um had imposed for 16
years an illegal blockade on Gaza um and
104 food trucks at the time uh were
entering Gaza daily um that's a truck
every 14 minutes uh now only 30 trucks
uh have delivered food since the weekend
only in the southern part of Gaza um
through the raah crossing um averaging
one truck every three hours and 12
minutes uh the significant drop in food
deliveries is creating an immediate and
life-threatening situation for 2.2
million people of which half are
children um who are now in desperate
desperate
need so that's where you get the 2% of
their usual food supply that they've
been getting since this started what are
people
eating um my family is in Gaza uh
yesterday they shared three cans of tuna
between about 20 people with cucumber um
they have to queue as your uh reporter
said for hours for water or even to get
some bread um prices have flown up the
roof clean water is almost non-existent
with only three liters available per
person um the UN sets 15 lers as the
bare minimum even in in humanitarian
emergencies um can you say those numbers
again can you say those numbers again
for our viewers the water that they have
versus the water that people need so so
so far people have only three laders um
a day per person um the UN sets 15
leaders um as the minimum bare minimum
even in humanitarian
emergencies uh as the bar uh so that's
five times less than what the UN sets as
the bare minimum for a people person to
survive um
um as your reporter also mentioned
numerous bakeries and supermarkets have
been destroyed and damaged uh those that
are operational of course cannot meet
the local demand for Essentials uh like
fresh bread um gaza's only working wheat
Mill is non-operational because there's
no fuel because and it runs of course on
electricity um essential items like food
flour oil sugar um uh are present in
under destroyed warehouses but
delivering them is nearly impossible due
to the damaged roads this is interesting
I think a lot of people don't know this
bush right you're saying that there are
basic food stuffs even as people are
hungry there are basic food stuffs that
are currently undamaged in warehouses
what is happening to
those well they can't reach them because
the roads are so destroyed and there's
constant bombardment that people can't
reach that food um and there's lack of
fuel so you don't have have also the
possibility to move those uh those
stocks around um because there's nowhere
safe in Gaza they're bombarding uh the
North like the South um we're we're
finding actually my family has gone back
to Gaza City today because they could
not sustain the living conditions they
were in while taking refuge in the
middle area um over 15,000 Farmers have
lost their crops uh 10,000 livestock
breeders are struggling and the Finish
fishing industry is completely paralyzed
Gaza has a huge fishing industry but
they can't go to the Sea uh to fish um
the current of course electricity um
blackout is affecting the refrigeration
of Food Supplies if there was any can I
jump in there's an important part of
your statement which I read that says
there there there were um food stuffs
obviously that came in on these trucks
uh these 60 or so trucks that have been
allowed into the Gaza Strip since the
weekend uh uh I beg your
pardon 30 trucks okay that's not the
number that I had um but that lentils
and Pasta in particular
were allowed to enter into the Gaza
Strip your statement mentions that and
also mentions that actually that can't
always be consumed because of a lack of
uh electricity and a lack of uh drinking
water yeah exactly I mean people can't
cook there's no gas to cook there's no
electricity to cook and there's no clean
water to cook so you can't make lentil
soup or rice uh without clean water and
without gas um so maybe some families
have some supplies uh but generally
speaking it has been mostly canned food
what people have been surviving on how
long how much longer can this last I
know it's very difficult to obviously
put a date on it but you're telling me
you're telling me that people are living
right now off of tuna cans and cucumbers
um presumably they don't have unlimited
resources of tuna can and
cucumber
stays I beg your pardon it's impossible
to it's impossible to we're unable to
operate our operations have been halted
we're only able to do very small
distributions of hygiene kits soap
toothpaste things like this um our
partners are also trying to live the day
so our assessment our ability to assess
the situation with very precise data is
extremely difficult to really and we
can't reach people we can't reach
affected communities to also do those
assessments to understand really how
much supplies do they have left I would
expect that people from um with better
incomes might have more supplies but
people that are struggling knowing that
more than half of Gaza is lives under
the poverty line are already
starving gaza's population is very young
what does it do to children especially
the youngest children to be malnourished
I mean look Staying Alive because you're
eating the bare minimum that's one thing
but to actually be malnourished what are
you are you looking at that in terms of
what it does in the medium-term the long
term to these young
bodies um we we are developing this
analysis further um but I would I mean
from just common sense uh a child should
be having at least three meals a day
with two snacks in between uh a good
portion of protein and vegetables uh
including carbs um uh and all the
vitamins that they need especially that
they're growing um that's malnutrition
and and malnutrition has severe
long-term consequences on children uh
not only actually physical uh
consequences but mental health
consequences um we I had worked for
another international organization that
had we commissioned a report three years
ago after the 2021 war and it found that
four out of five PE children uh felt
abandoned by the
world Bush khi your policy lead in the
occupied Palestinian territory and
Israel at the international Aid
organization Oxfam we thank you for
taking the time to join us on the
program
today thank you